---
layout: post
title: Solving the Puzzle
feature-img: "img/sample_feature_img.png"
---
In my previous blog post, I gave you a little insight into my headspace over the last couple of years; the realization that I was in a rut with my career, the search for my next steps, and the discovery of web development and bootcamps.  But why did I stick with development?  With all of the Googling I did, I found a number of extremely interesting career paths, but why did I settle on development?  Biggest reason:  I fell in love with solving the puzzle.

Before I found development, I didn’t get a lot of joy from my work.  By the end of my 9th year with the firm, I had an important role (making sure policies were followed so that my company didn’t get sued) and I had a great team.  In fact, the team I worked with was by far the biggest source of my joy.  That was it though.  I had no occasion to yell out in jubilation after I disciplined a disobedient, and indignant, employee.  There was no gratification for me.  I wanted to find something that would give me some level of joy, some sort of challenge that made me push myself to be better.  I did not have some “pie in the sky” mentality about the perfect job for me.  Doesn’t exist in my opinion.  I just wanted something more.  So, when I found development and began to experience the puzzle solving, it started to click.

With code, when I fix that bug, or when I find the right method, or I finally understand a CS principle, when I actually solve the puzzle, it’s joyous.  The culmination of the hours banging my head against the wall, the Googling, the self-doubt, when I finally solve the problem, I feel like I’ve accomplished something.  That sense of accomplishment is very powerful to me.  Maybe I didn’t get that a lot in my life in general and that’s why it’s so impactful.  Whatever the reason, I knew I wanted that feeling more often.  

That’s why I chose development.  There are other reasons, of course.  There are many careers out there that share similar characteristics as development, and I will go more in-depth on those reasons in later blog posts, but the happiness I feel when I solve a puzzle with code is the biggest one.  Now, the journey to bring that happiness into my life on a regular basis by learning the tools and expanding my puzzle solving (AKA critical thinking) skills has begun.  It’s going to be quite the challenge, but I haven’t been more excited to step out of my comfort zone in my life.
