---
layout: post
title: Escaping a Rut
---

As I mentioned earlier, it was around my ninth year with Morgan Stanley when I realized I was in a rut with my career. I didn’t want to advance anymore.  My job was fine, but I didn’t want to move up the corporate ladder.  I realized I hadn’t learned anything new in years. So, I brought up Google and started digging myself out.

I Googled about finding your passion and this year's "best jobs." Basically, I Googled for all of the corny things one searches for when trying to quickly find the meaning of life. Google showed me a lot, but I didn’t initially find my answer.  So, I changed direction and I thought back to what I really enjoyed when I was younger, a time when I didn't think much about passion or money.  I just thought about what I found interesting.  Math.  Physics.  Computers.  My Googling became more focused on those subjects and eventually I stumbled on to an “article” titled “What is Code” by Paul Ford.  I put “article” in quotes because Ford’s piece wasn’t just one article, it took up a whole Business Week magazine.  It was a great read.  It opened my eyes to the power of code.  I began to research more about how I might be able to learn software development.  I assumed that the only way I could do this was to go back to school and get my Masters in Computer Science.  The finance side of me started to add up the dollar signs and I was going to dismiss the idea of tech altogether.  Luckily, I soon learned needing a master degree wasn’t the case, but it wasn’t Google that taught me this, it was my wife and a podcast.

My wife told me that I needed to start listening to podcasts.  She was listening to Serial and said it was fantastic and that I had to listen.  So, for the first time ever, I opened the Podcast App on my iPhone.  But I didn’t go to Serial, I searched under the Technology category.  I saw a podcast called CodeNewbie.  Couldn’t have been more appropriate.  I started to look through the available episodes and one immediately grabbed my eye; it was called “What is Code with Paul Ford.”  It was serendipitous.  Angels began to sing.  I listened to the episode right then and there.  The interview was fantastic, but the other major benefit to me was one of the podcast’s sponsors was something called a bootcamp.  Googling ensued, and it didn’t let me down this time.  My real escape from the rut began.
