---
layout: post
title: Escaping a Rut
---

I have had a pretty successful career in the finance industry.  No, I didn’t strike it rich trading penny stocks or making a huge bet on a startup.  I simply had a solid career at a major finance company where I’ve been for 11 years.  11 years.  I usually say that twice because it shocks me every time I hear it.  That’s a long time.  I’m very fortunate to be able to work for the same company for that long while continuing to advance along the way.  But around year 9 (still a long time) I realized something: I didn’t want to advance anymore.  My job is fine, but I didn’t want to move up the corporate ladder.  I realized I hadn’t learned anything new in years.  I was in a rut and had to figure out how to dig myself out of it.

It started as anyone would expect…I Googled it.  I Googled about passion, best jobs in 2015, you know, all of the corny things one turns to Google for to quickly and easily find all of life’s answers.  Google showed me a lot, but I didn’t initially find my answer.  So, I changed direction and I thought back to what I really enjoyed when I was younger and didn’t think much about passion or money.  I just thought about what I found interesting.  Science.  Physics.  Computers.  My Googling became more focused on those subjects and eventually I stumbled on to an “article” titled “What is Code” by Paul Ford.  I put “article” in quotes because Ford’s piece wasn’t just one article, it took up a whole Business Week magazine.  It was a great read.  It opened my eyes to the tech world.  I began to research more about how I might be able to learn to code.  I assumed that the only way I could do this was to go back to school and get my Masters in Computer Science.  The finance side of me started to add up the dollar signs and I was going to dismiss the idea of tech altogether.  Luckily, I soon learned needing a master degree wasn’t the case, but it wasn’t Google that taught me this, it was my wife…kinda.

My wife told me that I needed to start listening to podcasts.  She was listening to Serial and said it was fantastic and that I had to listen.  So, for the first time ever, I opened the Podcast App on my iPhone.  But I didn’t go to Serial, I searched under the Technology category.  I saw a podcast called CodeNewbie.  Couldn’t have been more appropriate.  I started to look through the available episodes and one immediately grabbed my eye; it was called “What is Code with Paul Ford.”  It was serendipitous.  Angels began to sing.  I listened to the episode right then and there.  The interview was fantastic, but the other major benefit to me was one of the podcast’s sponsors was something called a Bootcamp.  Googling ensued, and it didn’t let me down this time.  My escape from the rut began.  
