---
layout: post
title: The Power of Mentorship
---

I am now 5 months into my 12-month bootcamp. I chose to do a 12-month bootcamp so that I could keep my current job and so that I could have some extra time to learn in case something tripped me up. I am happy to report, so far, so good! I've been learning about HTML5, CSS3, GitHub, and JavaScript. A lot of it was a refresher for me because of the guided online course I took last year, but I'm not complaining. It's been some time since I've looked at this stuff, so going through it again, and learning that I did retain a ton of it, was great. But now we're moving into more JavaScript and a library called jQuery. I know some JS, but haven't used jQuery before. That's why I'm so thankful that I have a mentor assigned to me through my bootcamp.

Something awesome about web development is that you can learn it completely on your own. There are so many resources out there that can turn you into a job-ready developer. And to the people that go this route, my hat is off to you. For me, having a mentor to discuss what I've learned or help me when I get stuck is a tremendous benefit. The way the curriculum works at my bootcamp is that you work through the checkpoints everyday (or at least 12 hrs/week) and meet with your mentor once a week. I loved this approach because I can work through the checkpoints on my own and really gauge how I'm doing. The beauty of having a mentor comes into play when I get stuck. There have been times where I'm stumped on one of the challenges and need some help. And it's at these times where I could get down on myself. Feel like I'm not smart enough to figure this out, no matter how much Googling or documentation I read. But what's great about discussing this with the mentor is when they tell you, "Doug, you are 90% of the way there. You were just missing X." Hearing that means the world to me. It brings me back to reality and reinforces the fact that even though I got stuck, I was so close. It shows that I am learning and am becoming a better developer everyday. That's what my mentor gives me. Not just technical help, but instilling confidence in me that I am doing well and I need to keep going. I would miss out on that if I didn't have a mentor. I'm grateful for not having to walk this path alone.
