---
layout: post
title: My First Tech Conference and a Tough Decision
---
When I realized I was in a rut with my finance career, I actually changed positions within my company for the sole reason of being able to learn to code.  That’s what I did in my 9th year with the company.  I took a pay cut in order to be closer to home so that I could have more free time to learn.  It was a big decision, but I knew it was the right one.  I also knew that an even bigger decision was coming, one that I was afraid of: career change.  Then I went to my first tech conference, and I couldn’t avoid that decision any longer.

Before I went to my first tech conference, I started to learn to code with some free, online resources. I Googled “best first language to learn.”  You know what I found out?  You’re not going to believe this, but people on the internet have a lot of opinions.  Python.  JavaScript.  C.  HTML.  CSS.  I found sites and posts claiming how each of them were the “best” language to learn first.  At the time, I didn’t know the difference between any of them.  So, I just jumped in and started learning C.  Spoiler alert: it was hard.  I messed around with it for a while on a free online course before I decided to go a different path.  After a quick detour with Python, I decided to pony up some money and pay for a “guided” online course.  There was not a live teacher or mentor, but there was a guided structure to it which appealed to me.  It was a full-stack curriculum teaching HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ruby.  I really enjoyed it, but wished I had a teacher to talk to.  When I finished the course, I wasn’t sure what I was going to do next.  There were plenty of free resources left for me to explore, but I wanted a live teacher.  But those programs were much more expensive, and rightfully so.  I wasn’t sure if I was ready to drop that type of money.  Also, when one finished a bootcamp, he/she was ready to enter the workforce.  In my eyes, if I enrolled in a bootcamp, then I was telling myself I was going to change careers.  That was big.  So, with all that on my mind, I was a little stuck.  Luckily around the time, a new tech conference was being held in NYC.  I bought a ticket.  It was one of the best decisions I’ve made in my life.

The tech conference was called Codeland and was organized by CodeNewbie (the podcast that opened my eyes to web development and the existence of bootcamps).  I won’t go into all of the details of the conference, but I definitely recommend you checkout CodeNewbie.org and listen to the podcast episodes that were created with nearly all of the conference content.  I met a lot of amazing people at the conference, listened to many brilliant talks, and learned more about web development.  The important thing for me about this conference was the inspiration it gave me. It made me want to be a part of the tech community.  It made me want to go to more tech conferences.  It made me want to learn new skills.  It eventually inspired me to enroll in an online bootcamp (Bloc.io)…eventually.

It still wasn’t an easy decision.  As wonderful as I felt after the conference, it took a few weeks for me to actually enroll in the bootcamp.  To be honest, I was scared.  Dropping the money to enroll in the bootcamp was a big enough decision, but the thing that scared me was getting out of my comfort zone.  I was about to make a decision that was potentially going to take me from a position of stability within my career to starting at the very bottom in a brand-new industry.  As exciting as starting this new challenge was going to be, I kept thinking about what I’d be giving up.  But my wife helped me change my perspective.  She told me how I clearly loved programming and sometimes you just need to take a chance on yourself.  With that support, I changed my point of view from thinking about what I’d be giving up to what I would gain.  With that fresh perspective, I enrolled in the bootcamp and haven’t looked back.
