---
layout: post
title: How Code Unexpectedly Entered My Life
---

I didn’t go to college for computer science.  You know what I went to college for?  Professional Golf Management.  Not a lie.  Not a joke.  Real talk.  It is a real degree that I received from Penn State, along with a minor in business administration.  I loved golf.  It is a great game that taught me a lot of lessons (patience, gratitude, determination, work-ethic, curse words).  And guess what?  I quit the golf business after one year.  I was burnt out.  Long hours and low pay led me to fall out of love with the game.  It also taught me that I needed to find a career where I felt fulfilled.  It was that feeling of fulfillment that led me to a new career in finance…but it was a feeling that I forgot along the way.

I am thankful for my time in the golf business.  I’ve met a lot of great people along the way.  It was through this community that I began my new career.  I stepped out of my comfort zone and called an alum that I never met before.  He graduated from the same program that I did and got into finance, without going back to school.  I am still shocked to report that he was thrilled to get my call.  First person to ever call him and ask him for advice, he told me.  I couldn’t believe it.  We had some great talks and he thought highly enough of me to put me in front of his manager.  Long story short, I got a low-level admin job in the alum’s office.  I was so excited.  I was going to learn about the stock market!  The stuff the people on the news spoke about when something bad happened!  I was going to help people make smart, informed financial decisions.  I was actually going to start a career, and that was a fulfilling prospect.  And since then, I have had a pretty successful career.  No, there was no striking it rich trading penny stocks or making a huge bet on a startup.  I simply had a solid career at a major finance company where I’ve been for 11 years.  11 years.  I usually say that twice because it shocks me every time I hear it.  That’s a long time.  I’m very fortunate to be able to work for the same company for that long while continuing to advance along the way.  But a couple of years ago, I started to think about exactly what I was doing and how I’d feel about it 20 years from now.  I felt…ok about it.  I realized that the feeling of fulfillment that I was missing in the golf business was back, and I didn’t even see it coming.

What was I going to do?  I was 33 years old and was actually contemplating a career change.  It was crazy.  People can’t do that.  That’s too _old_ to make that significant of a change.  And what career was I going to choose?  How was I going to figure this out?  Well, you know what I did?  Of course you do.  I Googled it.  And what did I find?  A magazine article and a podcast. Together, they changed my life.
